Good morning, brothers and sisters, how delightful it is to be gathered together for this spiritual occasion.
Jehovah's Witnesses love gathering at conventions, to learn, worship, and sing together.
But large conventions like these, with tens of thousands beating together,
weren't always a part of our modern day worship, how did they get started?
Let's find out in this episode of Our History in Motion.
The very first large assembly of Jehovah's people was actually held thousands of years ago,
when the Israelites gathered with Moses at Mount Sinai for spiritual instruction.
After that, the Israelites attended three festivals each year,
and just like today's conventions, those gatherings brought people together from different tribes
to praise him as one big family.
In modern times, our first conventions were held in the late 1880s,
but they weren't exactly what we'd think of as conventions today.
With just a few hundred in attendance, they were really just big meetings that brought the Bible students together
to commemorate the Lord's evening meal.
And they were all held in Allegheny, Pennsylvania, USA.
But that changed in 1893, with the opening of the Chicago World's Fair.
The fair drew millions of people, and with the railroads offering discounted rates to Chicago,
the Bible students saw it as a perfect opportunity to invite the brothers and sisters for a five-day convention.
About 360 attended, a small crowd by today's standards.
But early conventions like this one helped the Bible students see just how a building it was to meet with fellow believers from other areas.
Eventually, conventions became an annual event.
Some were held outdoors, or in a tent, like the 1908 Convention at Putin Bay, a summer resort on Lake Iriohio.
This convention was ten days long, and it was the largest up to that time, with an estimated 3,500 or more in attendance.
It was a chance for brothers and sisters, young and old, to be spiritually refreshed, spend time together, laugh together, eat together, and build true bonds of friendship and love.
The world then suffered the devastating effects of World War I and the deadly 1918 influenza pandemic that had taken an estimated 50 million lives.
But that did not stop God's people.
Our bonds of love became even more evident in 1919 at Cedar Point, Ohio.
This was the first major convention held after brother Rutherford and his associates had been released from prison.
Thrilled, to finally gather together safely, the Bible students just kept coming and coming until the entire program had to be moved outdoors, with some 7,000 in attendance.
Just three years later, in 1922, Cedar Point was the location of an even more exciting convention, with an average daily attendance of about 10,000.
It energized God's people to go on preaching with renewed vigor.
Many conventions in the years that followed helped unite God's people in even more powerful ways, like the unforgettable one held in Columbus, Ohio in 1931.
Imagine stepping into the Colosseum at the fairgrounds. There are 15,000 in attendance and the places packed.
Your program has two large letters printed on the front, J.W.
For the first two days of the convention, everyone's trying to guess what those letters mean.
Just watch. Just wait.
Finally, brother Rutherford steps on stage.
Near the end of his talk, he presents a resolution that climaxes with the words,
we desire to be known as and called by the name to wit Jehovah's Witnesses.
In the 1940s, World War II had left many countries devastated and divided.
But Jehovah's Witnesses were growing in number and in unity.
In 1946, they gathered in Cleveland, Ohio for the Glad Nation's Theocratic Assembly and the name couldn't have been more appropriate.
It was a true international convention with 55,000 delegates from 33 different nations.
Some even camped in tents and trailers to be there. Tent cities were a common sight during big conventions of this era.
With our spiritual family continuing to grow, conventions during the 1950s were held around the world,
even in places where resources were limited.
A landmark example of just how international conventions had become was the incredible 1958 Divine Will International Assembly in New York City,
which was attended by more than a quarter of a million people from 123 lands.
This was the largest international convention ever held in one city, building Yankee Stadium and just four blocks away, the polo grounds.
The greatest assembly of true Christians ever held is opening this day. We are certain that Jehovah is with us and that we are here by Divine Will.
But what unified God's people at conventions like this one wasn't simply gathering together in large numbers.
It was the spiritual content, riveting talks, practical symposiums, new releases and starting in the 1960s, Bible dramas on stage in full costume.
Those spiritual gifts along with the joy of meeting new friends and uniting with old ones have made assembling together a true blessing.
But it hasn't always been easy. In the country of Georgia, where witnesses had faced severe opposition, plans were set to hold the 2006 deliverance at hand, district convention in the Tbilisi Philharmonic Concert Hall.
But the hall management cancelled the contract just one week before the convention.
With just days before the opening session, an army of determined brothers and sisters turned two plots of farmland into a convention site.
Harvesting the potatoes planted on the property, building a stage in benches for seating and installing sound equipment.
When it was time for the first session, everything was ready and more than 17,000 attended either on site or by telephone tie-in.
Not only did the convention come off without a hitch, but the attendees were overwhelmed with another unexpected blessing, the New World translation in Georgian.
Unifying them even further with their brothers and sisters around the world.
In modern times like these, special and international conventions have been held in far-flung places around the world. And when it was impossible to meet in person, we've even met online.
From Poland to Korea, from Australia to South Africa, conventions were and still are joyful spiritual occasions for all of God's people.
They motivate and encourage us, united as brothers and sisters, and most importantly, draw us closer to Jehovah.